Changelog: DM-3837 ASM OOM Killed (#2394)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/asm-1-8-0-fix-for-oomkill-during-software-read.md

---
date: 2024-04-26

> title: Optimized Memory Usage while reading softwares of a device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Reading software items of a device no longer results in running out of memory
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-VSkj2iV9m
    label: Fix
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Device Management app
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-TlhlHnKTa
    label: advanced-software-mgmt
ticket: DM-3837
version: 1.9.0
---

> The Advanced Software Management microservice used to crash due to an Out of Memory error while reading the softwares of a device. This fix optimises the process 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Advanced Software Management microservice used to run out of memory while reading the software items of a device. This issue has been fixed.
```

> of reading the softwares of a device without causing the microservice to crash and improves stability when we have devices with a large number of softwares. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process has been optimized towards reading the software items of a device without issues and improving the stability in case of devices with a large number of software items. 
```

> The process has been optimized towards reading the software items of a device without issues and improving the stability in case of devices with a large number of software items. 

Reviewer 2: I somehow can't reply to Philipp's remark. But I do fully agree. If this was only found in a test environment, this shouldn't be mentioned at all. Highlighting scalability improvements is also not helpful as scalability is expected by our customers so this actually does not actually imply an improvements but uncovers a problem in our past implementation. If no-one has seen any issues - that's good and we shouldn't highlight that we had some.

> The process has been optimized towards reading the software items of a device without issues and improving the stability in case of devices with a large number of software items. 

Author: @l2p- shall I close the PR now? And then close the issue?

> The process has been optimized towards reading the software items of a device without issues and improving the stability in case of devices with a large number of software items. 

Reviewer: @ashhSAG93 Has this been clarified? Can we close the PR?
